In this three minute introduction, I'm
going to answer four frequently asked questions about JavaScript.
What is JavaScript? What can you do with it?
Where does JavaScript code run? And what is the difference between JavaScript and
ECMA Script? So let's start with the first question. What is JavaScript?
JavaScript is one of the most popular and widely
used programming languages in the world right now. It's growing
faster than any other programming languages, and big companies like Netflix
Walmart, and PayPal, build entire applications around
JavaScript. And here's the average salary of a JavaScript developer,
in the united states. That is $72,000 a year.
So it's a great opportunity to get a great job learning JavaScript.
You can work as a front-end developer, or back-end developer,
or a full-stack developer, or who knows, both the front-end and the back-end.
Now the second question, what can you do with JavaScript?
For a long time, JavaScript was only used in browsers to build
interactive web pages. Some developers referred to Javascript
as a toy language. But those days are gone because of huge
community support and investments like large companies like Facebook
and Google. These days you can build full blown web or mobile
apps as well as real-time networking apps like
chats and video streaming services, command-line tools, or even games.
Here's an example, the third question,
where does JavaScript code run? JavaScript was originally
designed to run only in browsers. So every browser has
what we call a JavaScript Engine that can execute JavaScript code.
For example, the JavaScript engines in Firefox and Chrome
are SpiderMonkey and V8. In 2009,
a very clever engineer called Brian Doll took the
open source JavaScript engine in Chrome, and embedded it inside
a C++ program. He called that program Node.
So Node is a C++ program, that includes Google's V8 JavaScript
engine. Now with this we can
run JavaScript code outside of a browser, so we can pass our
JavaScript code to Node for execution. And this means the
with JavaScript we can build the back-end for our web and mobile applications.
So, in a nut shell, JavaScript code can be run inside of
a browser, or in Node. Browsers and Node provide a
runtime environment for our JavaScript code. And finally the last question,
what is the difference between JavaScript and ECMA Script?
Well, ECMA Script is just a specification, Java
Script is a programming language that confirms to this specification.
So, we have this organization called ECMA, which is responsible
for defining standards, they take care of this ECMA Script
specification. The first version of ECMA Script was released in
1997. Then, starting in 2015, ECMA
has been working on annual releases of a new specification.
So in 2015. ECMA Script 2015 which is also
called ECMA Script version 6, or ES6
for short. This specification defined many new features for
JavaScript. Alright, enough theory, let's see JavaScript in action.
So every browser has a JavaScript engine, and we can easily
write JavaScript code here without any additional tools. Of course,
this is not how we build real world applications, but this is just for a quick demo.
So open up Chrome, right click on an empty area and go
to inspect. Now this opens up Chrome
developer tools. Here, select the console tab, this is our JavaScript
console, and we can write any valid JavaScript code here. So,
type this, console.log
put a single code here, and then Hello World
Another single code to terminate,
close the parenthesis, and add a semi colon at the end. Now as you
go through the course, you're going to understand exactly what all this means, for now, don't
worry about it. So now, press enter, and you can see the Hello World
message on the console. You can also write mathematical expressions
here. For example 2+2 you get 4. Or
we can do something like this. Alert, parenthesis single code
yo. Enter and here's an alert.
In the next lecture, I'm going to talk about setting up your
development environment for writing JavaScript code.